Migration from register_attr to register_tool (#926)
EmbarkStudios/rust-gpu: docs/src/migration-to-register-tool.md

# Migration to `register_tool`

This document applies to [PR#926](https://github.com/EmbarkStudios/rust-gpu/pull/926)

## What happened

In a [recent nightly Rust update](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/commit/76dd5c58a011bb734ad5b8e96fc560374893bc8f), the `register_attr` feature was removed in favor of `register_tool`. Unfortunately, rust-gpu made use of this feature to register the `spirv` attribute.

## What does this mean for you as a shader maintainer

> You'll need to import the `spirv` proc macro attribute from `spirv-std` in order for the rust compiler:

Reviewer: Sentence looks accidentally cut-off.

```rust
use spirv_std::spirv;
```

> If your shader code already contains this line but is conditionally only included for non-spirv builds, like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your shader code already contains this line but is conditionally only included for non-SPIR-V builds, like so:
```
or alternatively this:
```
non-`spirv` builds
```

```rust
#[cfg(not(target_arch = "spirv"))]
use spirv_std::spirv;
```

> please remove the conditional attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
please remove the conditional attribute (the `#[cfg(...)]` line).
```

> For this macro attribute to work correctly, it is important that `spirv` is visible in the global score and you use it like you used it before: `#[spirv(..)]`. An attempt to scope the attribute (such as `#[spirv_std::spirv(..)]`) will confuse the macro and likely fail.

Reviewer: We don't need to expand on this much more but to be clear this only applies to weird "leaf" things like function args, fields, etc. (which are replaced *while* transforming a larger thing that triggered the proc macro as usual).
Whole-definition attributes (e.g. the whole entry-point or a whole `struct`) will just work through normal name resolution.

Funny thing about that btw, if you *only* need it for a leaf, you need to do:
```rust
#[spirv()]
fn foo(
    #[spirv(ray_tracing_weirdness)] x: T,
) {}
```
(with the whole-`fn` one only serving to handle the inner ones lol - again, I don't think we have to mention this, since we don't have that many attributes to begin with, and so far such a usecase doesn't exist AFAIK, but I wanted to expand on it "for the record" so to speak)

Author: If we do end up having a case where this applies (I don't think we do currently?), I'd suggest supporting `#[spirv]` without the parens.

Reviewer: > I'd suggest supporting `#[spirv]` without the parens.

I don't think we have a say in the matter (i.e. both shouldwork), and you likely can't tell them apart (since that's the proc macro, not the tool module one).

Instead, we opted to implement a proc macro attribute called `spirv` instead[^1]. This macro attribute scans the item it is applied to, and translates any `#[spirv(..)]` it finds into `#[rust_gpu::spirv(..)]` which will be subsequently handled by the codegen backend. Because it is now a proc macro attribute exported from `spirv_std`, you need to do `use spirv_std::spirv` to make it globally visible in your crate. ***Note that we recommend using the `spirv` proc macro attribute itself rather than the `rust_gpu::spirv` attribute it translates to, as the latter is subject to change.***

We've also added the `feature(register_tool)` and `register_tool(rust_gpu)` crate attributes by default when compiling through `SpirvBuilder`. This will silence any error that you would otherwise get for applying a `rust_gpu` scoped attribute.

> [^1]: This is not entirely true. In reality, the `spirv` proc macro attribute already existed, but only for non-spirv builds. It was used to turn the `#[spirv(..)]` attribute into a no-op. The proc macro is now used on all platforms, and it emits `#[cfg_attr(target_arch="spirv", rust_gpu::spirv(..))]` for each usage of `#[spirv(..)]`.

Reviewer: :100: :100: :100:
<sub>(I wasn't thinking we needed this but now that you wrote it I really like it heh, setting the new standard basically)</sub>
